I do not want to be part of a political
movement that's based on a lie I do not
want to be part of a religion that's
based on a lie
I've honest yen I totally believe in
criticism I think you can criticize
other people what I don't like is when
people were applied to criticism say you
should not criticize others because you
owe the vegan community you know need to
be me be United you need to support each
other despite that you disappeared
somebody else well crap I don't need to
support the others of the honey I don't
need to support vegan gurus I don't even
support vegan leaders I owe them nothing
I think that veganism first came onto
the scene with a set of easy answers to
difficult questions and most of those
answers were wrong even if you
sympathize with them even they appeal to
your heart to your soul to your spirit
the idea that we can simply hand down
this dictum that nobody should ever kill
any animal for any reason and then that
we can all live by it that we can
reinvent modern Western industrialized
society on that basis it is a simple
answer to a complicated question and
inevitably it's wrong no matter how much
it might appeal to us emotionally it's
like when I get comments
well you're not big enough because this
is this I made a video yesterday about
conservation and wildlife habitat and
someone said well you're just not vegan
then because you will not argue against
wildlife conservation and I said it
still doesn't wash away the facts of
conservation there are purpose to
wildlife conservation I'm against
slaughterhouse factory farming for
animals I'm against it I am NOT against
wildlife conservation because I
understand why I like conservation I've
been part of that in my own life it's
not as black and white as as let's just
not kill any animals period through a
long series of videos now I've been
trying to raise this issue
of habitat conservation and wildlife
management as a fundamentally different
paradigm a different basis for both
asking and answering questions about how
humans and animals live together and as
you guys probably know the most
controversial aspect of that was part
was the question of pet ownership but
other controversies one of it also other
people and I believe me I've gotten a
lot of very appreciative fan mail
appreciative fan mail from people who
agreed with me to begin with who felt
that they were all alone in a vegan
movement that had given in to a mania
for pet ownership and the other hand
have also gotten some really deep fan
mail from people who who said they never
really thought about it before but now
that I raised the question they did a
lot of soul-searching they did a little
bit of research and they they came
around at the view that yes as a matter
of principle what I was saying was right
but it's an inconvenient principle
because it's a principle that forces us
to come up with complicated answers to
complicated questions gets into
mitigating problems not pretending we
can solve them overnight wildlife
population management involves killing
more than zero animals and as soon as we
admit that to ourselves as vegans our
therm could get into another more
meaningful set of questions questions
both a principle and of practice I'm
going to choose an extreme example to
keep this simple you know in the north
of Canada we have polar bears the
management of polar bears does sometimes
involve tranquilizing them and
relocating them you know pretty
relatively nonviolent means and it
sometimes involves killing them and
again any time if you're gonna move past
street protests and making hysterical
extreme statements the internet to
actually lobbying government for change
to get a change to a specific law to
specific principle you're not gonna pass
a law that just says the government will
never again shoot a polar bear that's
ridiculous I I'm vegan I would love it
if we could live without ever shooting
polar bears but there's gonna be a
statistic every year a certain number of
polar bears are gonna be shot dead by
human beings including bye-bye you know
wildlife management
by government officials in various
capacities I'm from Wyoming again as I
said I live near Yellowstone I like grew
up there I don't live there now but and
at one point of time the wolves were a
problem so people started killing the
wolves
the problem is back in the day that they
didn't they didn't know that if you
eradicated the role the wolves are you
killed the wolves that the Bison and the
elk and the deer and everybody would
over populate and since there was no
regulation with the animals is that the
Bison and the elk and everything would
start to Obie over grazing and actually
over grazed then eventually they would
start starving because there's too many
of them the ecosystem cannot handle all
of those big-game herbivores and
herbivores basically they had to be
hunted to conserve the habitat and also
eventually Yellowstone had to introduced
non-native wolves into Yellowstone now I
do not see in that a justification for
commercialized hunting and I used the
word commercialized for a reason in
Canada we have a real problem a chronic
problem of bears I'm not gonna speak of
bears as a whole not just polar bears
bears break through somebody's window
most often it's a window leading into a
basement or you know a semi sub-basement
kind of situation the bear can smell
food inside the bear can get into the
house and it can't get out and depending
on where you live if you live in a
remote area even if you make a phone
call to the government the government
say we can't send anyone to help you you
need to get a rifle and kill the bear
yourself very sad but these these kinds
of things are inevitable and I think you
can have government policy and public
education that prepares people for those
situations or that even makes humane and
nonviolent alternatives available maybe
maybe that's even that is too idealistic
meaning you can you can investigate ways
to try to minimize the number of people
killing bears but I do not see in that a
rationale for the exploitation of the
bear population as a form of
entertainment or as a basis for
for-profit hunting so coming back to
polar bears I chose them as a simple
example
get every year a significant number of
Japanese tourists coming to northern
Canada to see polar bears they also want
to see the night sky up in the Arctic
that wants to various things as a
cultural difference interestingly the
Chinese tourists tend to have a
different taste Chinese tourists who go
to the Arctic almost always want to see
a cliff of ice you know uh and I where
ice comes directly onto the ocean they
want to see ice breaking up and falling
they may also want to see polar bears
but if you talk to people who work in
tourism they observe these these sort of
subtle cultural differences in the
chinese japanese i think ethically
it's very different to have a japanese
tourists come to see a wild polar bear
and having a japanese tourists pay money
to shoot it wild portrait to me that's a
real difference that's a meaningful
difference even if we accept that it's
inevitable that wildlife management and
just people living in homes and in the
countryside or in the Arctic that
sometimes people are gonna kill these
animals and we have to have kind of
management managerial set of attitudes
towards that I don't see that as being
on a slippery slope towards hunting in
that sense you know Yellowstone is not a
special case this happens within lots of
environments now you are not allowed to
hunt in national parks but at the same
time if the Bisons over populate the
park employees or those who they hire
are in charge of removing some bison so
again this for me fits into the same
paradigm that I raised relatively long
time ago in videos where I talked about
the problem of gambling and that one of
the halfway solutions that existed in
the Western world I can remember when I
was a kid was that some countries
allowed a non-profit gambling but did
not allow for-profit gambling so it was
ridiculous but in Canada used to be that
churches could have gambling in order to
raise money for charity but you couldn't
actually have a casino operating on a
for-profit basis now over time those
laws changed be more and more permissive
and today there are tons of casinos in
Canada and
nobody can tell that it was ever
regulated okay I'm exaggerating slightly
but things things have sort of rolled
downhill from there
with vivisection some of you guys will
remember this and we won't I I raised
the issue of I don't think ethically
vivisection should be allowed to exist
on a for-profit basis to me that's
important is that we say even if there's
a justification where I put it to you
this way I for me it's completely
unforgivable for any human being to wear
leather boots so now I sound like an
extremist right well leather boots are
not functional in any way if leather
boots had an advantage over you know
rubber and canvas and vegan materials
then the US Marine Corps would wear
leather boots every day if there was any
technological advantage US Marine Corps
and other military services would be
wearing boots leather boots in action
and they don't need more a hundred years
ago they did things have changed
mountaineering teams who have a huge
budget do not wear leather boots do not
wear leather gloves they did a hundred
years ago so the use of leather for
boots is totally obsolete and from my
perspective ethically totally
unforgivable there is no excuse for
anyone ever to wear leather boots and
yet an incredibly small percentage of
the population agrees to this even
though leather boots have no benefit and
we can provide a 100% perfect
substitution we can actually provide a
technologically superior substitute walk
into any army surplus store and look at
the current models not of parade boots
but of the boots that army guys wear in
combat in inaction of various kinds okay
I have been honest in admitting to you
on camera that I cannot say this about
the exploitation of animals for medical
science research it's not the same we
don't have a simple technological
replacement the same way we can replace
leather boots and that's very sad for me
I've seen videotape of horseshoe crabs
being tortured for medical science and
the horseshoe crab is a very simple
creature in terms of its the size of its
brain they don't actually have eyes so
you know there are
they can detect light but they are
they're considered in terms of
evolutionary science a simple creature
deeply upsetting to me horrifying to me
I regard that as an abomination
you know I regard that as a crime I'll
leave it to me it's completely repugnant
even when it's a horseshoe crab being
exploited even when it's being done to
produce medicines that are truly
necessary that we truly have no other
substitute for so the particular article
is reading about actually discussed the
the attempt scientifically to try to
make this obsolete that so far have
failed that so far we have no substitute
for it's actually the blood of the the
horseshoe crab okay I wish that wasn't
true but I do not want to be part of a
political movement that's based on a lie
I do not want to be part of a religion
that's based on a lie you guys laughed
at this but I said before I'm gonna give
it to you raw I'm gonna tell you the
honest truth as heartbreaking as it is
for me I'm in a position to morally
condemn wearing leather boots and I'm
not in a position to condemn you for
using medicine that's a product of
vivisection or using you know or
scientists who you know are reduced to
or who embrace this kind of animal is
exploitation this kind of animal
experimentation all right now there are
things we can do and I sorry so this is
the reason why I raised vivisection in
parallel that conservation to to
wildlife management I do think we can
still argue look when this is a
necessity we cannot have that necessity
determined by the push and pull of the
free market
we cannot just have for-profit
short-term profit motives paying for you
know monkeys or horseshoe crabs to be
tortured death and laboratories I think
we have to separate the pure pursuit of
research from the profit motive
when torturing animals to death is
involved and again I can give other
parallels I think there's a very real
question ever could how can you possibly
have prisons operating on a for-profit
basis I believe prisons are necessary
I'm not an anarchist
I believe that prisons need to exist
um however I do not think we can have
prisons operated by a company on a
for-profit basis if prisons exist for
the sake of necessity then it can't be
built on the profit motive so my point
here is when we move past the overly
simplistic questions and the overly
simplistic answers that veganism offered
the world I'd say in its first first few
steps towards becoming a movement it
doesn't mean we give up our own moral
principles at all I think it means we
look at the more complex and nuanced
solutions step by step we have to engage
in in the next 200 years or more than
200 years as we make the transition from
being a civilization that was absolutely
built on the exploitation of animals the
unquestioned exploitation and slaughter
of animals you know in the Chinese
language the character for home is a
roof over a pig in English we say home
is where the heart is in Chinese when
you look at that written character home
is where the pig is because this whole
civilization for thousands of years was
built on killing and eating pigs and
European civilization was built on
riding horses anyhow that's the reality
of what humanity has been for thousands
and thousands of years and you know the
answers these questions are gonna come
step by step and the fact that you're
willing to get into the nitty-gritty of
okay what is the ethical way to manage a
polar bear population what are the
terrible compromises we have to make now
and in the next 10 years what how are we
going to manage a scientific and medical
establishment that relies on torturing
animals to death for scientific research
and for the production of some medicines
as in the case of the horseshoe crab
what is what is that going to mean in
the next 10 years and you know first
things last how are we going to motivate
even 10% of the population to care
enough to just stop wearing leather
boots
when leather boots deliver no benefit to
them at all because it's not as black
white as as let's just not kill any
animals period shoutout to the channel
formerly known as plant-based hippie she
just changed her name she's now called
American unicorn she has a video
reflecting on how actually a
conversation she had with me was part of
the reason why she changed her name I
remember that conversation it's a happy
memory for me obviously as you guys know
I'm keeping up this thing where I really
try to support and shout out other vegan
channels any kind that that talk about
something real that are not trying to
sell you a diet they're not trying to
sell you a dream but that are asking the
difficult questions and she's one of
them she's one of the good ones even
though obviously politically very
different people